OVERVIEW OF PROSPECTS AND RISKS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES IN THE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION OF UKRAINE.

Formulation of the problem.
Today in Ukraine, the problem of transformation of the public administration system and the introduction of new methods and tools for the activities of managers in local and state bodies of public governance is relevant. The issue of optimizing and improving the activities of public administration bodies and increasing their orientation to the needs of citizens is urgent. Public administration requires a timely response to the challenges that appear in society and rational, high-quality and optimal management. Therefore, there is a need to use the latest digital technologies in the work of government and local administrative institutions in order to ensure openness of information and transparency of management processes.

Setting objectives
The purpose of this article is to study the implementation of digital technologies in public administration in order to improve the efficiency and quality of the activities of state structures. The purpose of the article is to analyze the legal framework and problems that arise during the implementation of digital technologies in public administration, to determine possible directions for their further development and to provide recommendations in order to increase the efficiency of their use. In particular, the implementation of the achievements of artificial intelligence in the public administrations of Ukraine will be considered.

presenting main material
In Ukraine, to ensure the transition to a digital society and the introduction of information technologies to obtain the above-mentioned advantages, a number of regulatory and legal documents have been adopted at the state level: the concept of the development of electronic governance, the concept of the development of electronic democracy, and the concept of the development of the digital economy and society. This legal framework allows for systematic steps in the process of mastering and implementing the latest information technologies in public administration bodies.
The process of digital transformation of society in public administrations is also becoming noticeable, which is aimed at simplifying their bureaucratic activities taking into account the interests of stakeholders - business representatives and ordinary citizens. At the same time, interested parties play not only the role of customers, but become an important factor influencing the development and implementation of the latest technologies for the provision of services. After all, the speed of digital transformation also depends on the adaptation of all process participants to new conditions. Digital technologies make it possible to optimize management processes, providing:
⦁ Reduction of information transmission delay – any communications can be almost instantaneous if necessary.
⦁ Continuous communication between different management structures both at the horizontal level between, for example, local government bodies and at the vertical level between state and local institutions.
⦁ Rapid exchange of large volumes of data - any institution can access the database and, based on this data, perform analytics for quick and optimal decision-making
⦁ Information protection – the development of cyber security makes it possible to close vulnerable points of public and private databases, while ensuring quick access to information of authorized users and blocking criminal actions of intruders.
⦁ Application of artificial intelligence - in recent years, artificial intelligence has significantly accelerated its development and is attracting more and more attention from researchers, businesses and users. It can also be used in management processes for a very wide range of tasks.
⦁ Automation of decision-making processes, communications, task allocation, etc. Any routine process can and should be automated using optimal algorithms for working with data.
⦁ Blockchain technologies allow using the digital economy at the state level, as well as providing a reliable method of saving public data.

From the listed ways of optimizing management processes, we will consider in more detail the implementation of artificial intelligence technologies, thanks to which the automation of management processes in public administration can receive significant development. In recent years, research has made significant progress in terms of the development of general artificial intelligence, capable of solving a wide range of problems and serving as an interface between the user and the computer network. In particular, we can cite the example of ChatGPT — a chatbot with artificial intelligence developed by the OpenAI laboratory. It is a large statistical language model optimized for text-based dialogue and tuned with tutored and reinforcement learning techniques. The prototype is based on the OpenAI GPT-3.5 model — an improved version of GPT-3
The ChatGPT prototype was released on November 30, 2022. He captured the audience's attention with his detailed and well-formed answers. Of course, at this stage of development, there is no guarantee that the answers will be completely correct, but even now the bot can successfully imitate the work of a person and form answers to a wide range of questions. Accordingly, he can become an intermediary between the provider and recipient of administrative services. It is possible to create and implement various schemes of this interaction. Here are some options for building interaction between the user and the management body:
⦁ Inquiries from users go through a chatbot, which immediately answers the question without the involvement of human staff.
⦁ The request to the chatbot is redirected to a free operator for further service provision.
⦁ The chatbot can make a request to a specific database and return the result in the form of a filled-in form or document. At the same time, the request can be not only for a specific entry in the registry, but be more complex and require the processing of a significant amount of data.
⦁ A chatbot can act as an analytics and data processing tool.
⦁ A chatbot can act as an assistant for a public administration employee and help to quickly obtain the information necessary to make a decision.

Also, in addition to artificial intelligence of a more general purpose, the above tasks can be translated into more specialized systems with a specific purpose and trained taking into account the peculiarities of processes in Ukrainian public administration bodies. In particular, it is necessary to conduct a study of the possibilities of using artificial intelligence in the following aspects of work:
⦁ HR processes – resume processing, systematization and unified formatting of resume data for quick access to information by interested parties.
⦁ Processing of data on individual performance indicators of employees.
⦁ Organization of analytics for decision-making.
⦁ Own decision-making based on input data, but with the supervision of responsible employees.
⦁ Organization of access to large amounts of information.

Of course, it should be noted that the implementation of artificial intelligence in the work of public administration bodies is not always possible from a technical and organizational point of view at this stage of technology development. Therefore, in order to achieve the goals of optimizing administrative processes, it is necessary to outline a working plan of actions for the gradual introduction of artificial intelligence and separately define the limits of its use and the available technical possibilities of its implementation.
It is important to note that the introduction of artificial intelligence technologies in public administration requires a change in the existing organizational models and, perhaps, the complete elimination of the human factor from making individual administrative decisions, however, this requires significant efforts on the part of legal regulation.
In order to outline the goals and plans for the development of the use of artificial intelligence in Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers issued an order "On the approval of the Concept of the Development of Artificial Intelligence in Ukraine" dated December 2, 2020 No. 1556, which defines a wide list of possible directions for the development and use of artificial intelligence in many spheres of state work. Here is a short list of issues identified in the concept:

⦁ formation of a list of administrative services, decisions on which are made automatically, with minimal participation of civil servants;
⦁ research and application of artificial intelligence technologies in the field of health care, in particular with regard to countering epidemics and pandemics, as well as forecasting and prevention of potential epidemic outbreaks in the future;
⦁ introduction of a dialogue interface for electronic administrative services;
⦁ development of digital identification and verification of persons, including for the provision of public services;
⦁ conducting analysis, forecasting and modeling of the development of performance indicators of the public administration system, individual branches of the economy during planning;
⦁ optimization of processes of analysis and evaluation of international information, political, economic and defense trends;
⦁ detection of cases of illegal interference in the activity of the electronic system of state public procurement and other state electronic systems;
⦁ application of artificial intelligence technologies to identify unscrupulous practices in the activities of officials and civil servants;
⦁ solving problems related to the functioning of state registers, cadastres, etc.;
⦁ determination of directions for converting data into electronic form;
⦁ ensuring, within the framework of the development of open data, the priority of publishing dynamic data;
⦁ determination of the list of thematic categories of data sets of high social value, which are managed by state authorities;
⦁ development of personal data anonymization mechanisms.

Artificial intelligence is currently not regulated by law in the world and in Ukraine to a sufficient extent. The pace of its development is very fast, recently there are several scientific breakthroughs per year, so the legislative norms for its use do not have time to be formed. In particular, important issues that need to be resolved in this area are the issue of responsibility for decisions and mistakes that can be made by artificial intelligence. Also, the problem of intellectual property can be noted separately, because when training the model, the developers use publicly available data, but existing license agreements do not regulate the use of intellectual property works for these purposes. That is, the consent of the authors of articles, works of art, etc. is not taken into account when using their works for teaching artificial intelligence. This issue is not only not regulated by law, but public opinion on this matter has not actually been formed yet. That is, what is ethical when working with artificial intelligence still needs to be determined, although separate studies on this matter are being conducted, but this process requires a significant amount of time in terms of forming public opinion.
It is also worth considering that any automation processes may be met with protests from employees who lose their jobs. In particular, it will be most difficult for low-skilled personnel, who will be released first. Such cuts can be quite massive and this can negatively affect the unemployment rate in a country or region. Therefore, it is necessary to develop programs to attract laid-off workers in other industries or programs to improve their qualification level.
Protecting the rights of workers and ensuring their social security is one of the most important tasks in the context of the introduction of automation and digitization of work. In particular, during the introduction of new technologies, it is crucial to ensure that the rights of workers who may be deprived of jobs or lack the necessary competencies to work with new technologies are respected.
One of the possible tools for ensuring the protection of workers' rights can be an unconditional basic income - a form of social security, according to which every citizen must have an unconditional minimum amount of money guaranteed by law. In recent years, pilot projects for the introduction of basic income have been launched in many countries around the world. However, the implementation of such a system in the conditions of Ukraine requires a reform of the tax system and may have unforeseen consequences, therefore it requires further research.

Conclusions.
So, the article analyzed the ways of implementing digital technologies, the legal framework of Ukraine, which regulates this process. In particular, the advantages and risks regarding the implementation of artificial intelligence in the work of public administrations were considered.
In the realities of Ukraine, the introduction of digital technologies, including artificial intelligence, is a priority direction of development in the long term, but it requires attention and balanced, consistent actions on the part of the state, because it carries risks regarding the correctness of decision-making, responsibility in case of mistakes, an increase in unemployment due to labor automation, etc.
